# Notes on papers read to inform the sea ice group team challenge. 
These papers were read in December 2021 and January 2022 to inform the SeaIce group's approach.
Format: please use citation in APA format and place alphabetically by author's last name in file. Use a bullet point with initials to add comments of take-aways from paper.



Boulze, H., Korosov, A. and Brajard, J. 2020. "Classification of Sea Ice Types in Sentinel-1 SAR Data Using Convolutional Neural Networks" Remote Sensing 12, no. 13: 2165. https://doi.org/10.3390/rs12132165
* MCL: used CNN to classify for multiple ice ages and water with greatest uncertainty with young/new ice and water boundary - this could justify keeping the land/ice distinction in the original shapefiles BUT only using pixels with x pixels of boarder distinction (i.e. boundary buffering). Found that CNN is less sensitive to noise - can be jused to justify not treating Sentinel-1 product with filter for speckle. But does use denoising as done by Park (2019). Validates using measurements in two directions. Validates using additional random speckle filter with gaussian noise. 
CNN input data was of shape N×K×K×2 where N is number of samples, K is dimension of 50 pixels and 2 is for the hv and hh bands. Used training labeling with one-hot encoding.  Then used nearest neighbor to deal with single pixel anomalies in classifying. Uses 70-30 train test split. 
“CNN is composed of 2 batch-norm layers, 3 convolutional layers, 2 max-pooling layers, 3 hidden dense layers, 4 dropout layers (used only for the training) and one output layer.” I'm not sure what the CNN description means right now but wanted to note. 
* ST: The preprocessing also included thermal and textural noise correction and incidence angle correction. Sub-images were 50 px x 50 px. Ice charts were used for targets. They were rasterised to 1 km pixels and land masks were added manually to prevent invalid pixels being considered. Softmax was used in the output layer and ReLU in other layers. It was optimised with Adam. TensorFlow and Keras were used. Probabilities of classifications were computed and pixels classified with low probabilities were disgarded. Training was more successful when using images without lots of mixed ice types. The selection of images for the training set had more effect than the construction of the network on the performance. A single network was not sufficiently applicable to all SAR data.

Murashkin, D., Spreen, G., Huntemann, M., & Dierking, W. (2018). Method for detection of leads from Sentinel-1 SAR images. Annals of Glaciology, 59(76pt2), 124-136. doi:10.1017/aog.2018.6
* MCL: Describes formerly accepted approach of using a random forest or SVM for classification of the sea ice. Problematizes the observation angle of the satellite and the co-polarization reading and describes a method for correction of angle of incidence: corrected backscatter  = backscatter + 0.49*(incidence angle - min(incidence angle)). Used in Wang and Li (2021)


Park, J. W., Korosov, A. A., Babiker, M., Sandven, S., & Won, J. S. (2017). Efficient thermal noise removal for Sentinel-1 TOPSAR cross-polarization channel. IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, 56(3), 1555-1565.
* MCL: proposal for further denoising of Sentinel-1 using azimuth descalloping, noise scaling and interswath power balancing, ad local residual noise power compensation. This describes the method used by Boulze et al (2020). 

Radhakrishnan, K., Scott, A., & Clausi, D. (2021). Sea ice concentration estimation: Using passive microwave and SAR data with a U-net and curriculum learning. IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing.
* MCL: Found that U-net was better than CNNs that use fully connected layers at the output. Uses curriculum learning (presenting the model with increasingly difficult training data rather than an entire dataset at once) and found that this improved accuracy especially for marginal ice boundaries and new ice - this was implemented through a basic train, enhancement and test dataset schema. The U-net consisting of 19 convolutional layers and 4 downsampling operations. Downsampling to 400m (by averaging) was performed to reduced speckle and improve manageability of dataset. 

Ren, Y., Li, X., Yang, X., & Xu, H. (2021). Development of a Dual-Attention U-Net Model for Sea Ice and Open Water Classification on SAR Images. IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters.
* MCL: Used a “dual attention” (not sure what that means exactly) U-net with ResNet-34 as the encoder. Used Sentinel cross-polarization and used the sentinel image and incidence angle as the input to the model. This paper described the layers used well and I think it could be a good one to return to as we refine our model. 


Tom, M., Kälin, U., Sütterlin, M., Baltsavias, E., & Schindler, K. (2018). Lake ice detection in low-resolution optical satellite images. International Archives of the Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences, 4, 279-286.
* MCL: The MODIS bands kept/considered for ice detection at the beginning of the work were B1-B4, B6, B17-B20, B22, B23, B25. Because the lakes of interest were so small, the data was resampled and reprojected into the local UTM32N coordinates. This article problematizes the confusion between snow/ice and cloud cover in MODIS products, and uses the MODIS binary cloud-mask and combines the cloudy and uncertain clear classifications to create a conservative masking approach. Used xgboost to perform supervised variable importance analysis. Found that B2 alone or B2 and B22 together worked well.


Wang, Y.-R. and Li, X.-M.: Arctic sea ice cover data from spaceborne synthetic aperture radar by deep learning, Earth Syst. Sci. Data, 13, 2723–2742, https://doi.org/10.5194/essd-13-2723-2021, 2021.
* MCL: Offers justification to use cross polarization instead of co polarization if only using one band. Uses Sun and Li (2020) method for thermal noise reduction and de-scalloping. Downsamples to 400m pixels to shrink file size/make more manageable. Resales HV cross polarization to 0-255 like with optical bands and discards the 2% extremas at both ends of spectrum. Used U-net architecture. Reinforces prior observations that very smooth sea ice can have a backscatter similar to the ocean, and high wind sea surface can have backscatter similar to sea ice. 
* ST: The integrated stacking model combined outputs from multiple UNet classifiers, built from the same model but different datasets. The S1 images had 40 m x 40 m pixels which were changed to 400 m x 400 m. Both of the polarisations were used and linear regression was used for the HH backscatter and incidence angle. Preprocessing included radiometric calibration, noise correction, incidence angle correction, resampling and land masking. Ratio and difference between the polarisations were used to create RGB false-colour images, to show more details. More training samples were generated by rotating and flipping images. The UNet CNN used a sigmoid fn at the output layer and ReLU in other layers. It was optimised with Adam. The performance of the classifiers was correlated to the amount of ice in the image. The performace was reduced by the presence of land because those pixels were not considered. The accuracy was lower in summer. NetCDF storage was used to follow the Climate and Forecast Metadata convention for data availability.     

